                          INSTALLING AVIDA

Version 1.0 of Avida is working under Microsoft Windows 95, NT, and most
Unix platforms (specifically tested under HPUX, linux, OSF1, SunOS, Solaris,
IRIX, and IBM AIX).  Separate versions of the program are included for both
Win95/NT and Unix (with text-based user-interfaces).  Current versions of the
software, as well as updated versions of the manual will be placed on the
Avida ftp site at ftp://ftp.krl.caltech.edu/pub/avida/

--=  Windows 95 and NT  =--

The Windows version of Avida is the easiest to work with. Retrieve the file
avida-1.0.win.zip and unzip it.  This will create a directory called Avida/
with two sub-directories: The avida/ sub-directory contains all of the
source code for the program, and the work/ sub-directory is where all of the
configuration files are located, and where Avida should be run.  Upon
un-packing, there will be a pre-compiled Avida.exe executable in the work
sub-directory, which can be run immediately. 


--=  Unix Systems  =--

The file avida-1.0.0.tgz contains the source code for version 1.0 of Avida.
Compiling avida from this source code should be a simple process on most
systems.  The command ``gunzip avida-1.0.0.tgz'' will uncompress the file,
then ``tar -xvf avida-1.0.0.tar'' will extract the actual Avida files.  If
this does not work, consult your system administrator for the specifics of
your system.  

Extracting the program creates an avida/ directory with source/ and work/
sub-directories.  In order to produce an executable file, Avida has to be
compiled on your system.  To do this, type:

  configure
  make

This will cause the compiler to move through the avida files one at a time;
in a few minutes an executable is produced.  A link should exist to this
executable in the sub-directory work, as this is where all the
configuration files, such as ``genesis''. are located.  When in that
directory, it is sufficient to type ``avida'' to run the program.

Once you are happy with your executable, feel free to delete the .tar file.

--=  Final Notes =--

If you wish to install avida on your system such that it knows where to look
for its configuration files, you may wish to change the final portion of the
line in defs.hh which reads ``#define DEFAULT_DIR ../work/" to something
with a full path of where it should look for these files.  If this default
directory is set, avida will look in it for the config files _only if_ it
can't find them locally (the local files always have precedence).

Read the README file in the work directory to find out about setting up
customized avida runs.

Contact 'avida-help@krl.caltech.edu' with any questions you may have.
